In the Shape chapter, we demonstrated how forms can be generated using the principles of repetition, iteration, and interaction. This chapter is devoted to a special kind of form that is also extremely important in design : typography. Using various methods from the visual analysis of a text to the outlines of a character typography will be viewed in the following examples in the context of generative design. Letters become spaces. In generating a vector based font, you can directly influence numerous parameters and design with letters in time and space. Traces can be made visible of the emergence of the character and the interactive manipulation of its size and position. Composing text with automatic line breaks is nothing new. But when the vertical mouse position is responsible for the leading, and the elapsed time before entering each letter determines its size, then the rhythm of writing begins to interact with the text. In this example, time no longer determines letter size. Rather, certain letters modify, for instance, the next orientation. In this program, every character is translated using a visual rule. The source text thus becomes the blueprint for the composition. Which characters appear, and how often ? The properties of an analyzed text can generate images. The number of appearances in a text is calculated for each character and determines its appearance. The color of the letters, for instance, corresponds to how frequently they appear. Ultimately we do not even need the letters anymore. What were Melville’s, Goeth’s, or Dickens’s favorite words? The possibility of mechanically reading and processing large amounts of text provides considerable room for experimentation. All the words in Goethe’s Faust, for instance, can be counted and their frequency represented by elements of varying sizes to create diagrams the that functions as static literary criticism. In the Shape chapter, we demonstrated how forms can be generated using the principles of repetition, iteration, and interaction. This chapter is devoted to a special kind of form that is also extremely important in design : typography. Using various methods from the visual analysis of a text to the outlines of a character typography will be viewed in the following examples in the context of generative design. Letters become spaces. In generating a vector based font, you can directly influence numerous parameters and design with letters in time and space. Traces can be made visible of the emergence of the character and the interactive manipulation of its size and position. Composing text with automatic line breaks is nothing new. But when the vertical mouse position is responsible for the leading, and the elapsed time before entering each letter determines its size, then the rhythm of writing begins to interact with the text. In this example, time no longer determines letter size. Rather, certain letters modify, for instance, the next orientation. In this program, every character is translated using a visual rule. The source text thus becomes the blueprint for the composition. Which characters appear, and how often ? The properties of an analyzed text can generate images. The number of appearances in a text is calculated for each character and determines its appearance. The color of the letters, for instance, corresponds to how frequently they appear. Ultimately we do not even need the letters anymore. What were Melville’s, Goeth’s, or Dickens’s favorite words? The possibility of mechanically reading and processing large amounts of text provides considerable room for experimentation. All the words in Goethe’s Faust, for instance, can be counted and their frequency represented by elements of varying sizes to create diagrams the that functions as static literary criticism. In the Shape chapter, we demonstrated how forms can be generated using the principles of repetition, iteration, and interaction. This chapter is devoted to a special kind of form that is also extremely important in design : typography. Using various methods from the visual analysis of a text to the outlines of a character typography will be viewed in the following examples in the context of generative design. Letters become spaces. In generating a vector based font, you can directly influence numerous parameters and design with letters in time and space. Traces can be made visible of the emergence of the character and the interactive manipulation of its size and position. Composing text with automatic line breaks is nothing new. But when the vertical mouse position is responsible for the leading, and the elapsed time before entering each letter determines its size, then the rhythm of writing begins to interact with the text. In this example, time no longer determines letter size. Rather, certain letters modify, for instance, the next orientation. In this program, every character is translated using a visual rule. The source text thus becomes the blueprint for the composition. Which characters appear, and how often ? The properties of an analyzed text can generate images. The number of appearances in a text is calculated for each character and determines its appearance. The color of the letters, for instance, corresponds to how frequently they appear. Ultimately we do not even need the letters anymore. What were Melville’s, Goeth’s, or Dickens’s favorite words? The possibility of mechanically reading and processing large amounts of text provides considerable room for experimentation. All the words in Goethe’s Faust, for instance, can be counted and their frequency represented by elements of varying sizes to create diagrams the that functions as static literary criticism. In the Shape chapter, we demonstrated how forms can be generated using the principles of repetition, iteration, and interaction. This chapter is devoted to a special kind of form that is also extremely important in design : typography. Using various methods from the visual analysis of a text to the outlines of a character typography will be viewed in the following examples in the context of generative design. Letters become spaces. In generating a vector based font, you can directly influence numerous parameters and design with letters in time and space. Traces can be made visible of the emergence of the character and the interactive manipulation of its size and position. Composing text with automatic line breaks is nothing new. But when the vertical mouse position is responsible for the leading, and the elapsed time before entering each letter determines its size, then the rhythm of writing begins to interact with the text. In this example, time no longer determines letter size. Rather, certain letters modify, for instance, the next orientation. In this program, every character is translated using a visual rule. The source text thus becomes the blueprint for the composition. Which characters appear, and how often ? The properties of an analyzed text can generate images. The number of appearances in a text is calculated for each character and determines its appearance. The color of the letters, for instance, corresponds to how frequently they appear. Ultimately we do not even need the letters anymore. What were Melville’s, Goeth’s, or Dickens’s favorite words? The possibility of mechanically reading and processing large amounts of text provides considerable room for experimentation. All the words in Goethe’s Faust, for instance, can be counted and their frequency represented by elements of varying sizes to create diagrams the that functions as static literary criticism.